.TH stopspam 1

.SH NAME
stopspam \- script to ban spam ip's on the fly

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stopspam
[OPTION]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Anti-spam system that helps minimize the amount of spammers that
connect to your server by banning their ip's using one of the ip text
databases provided by http://www.stopforumspam.com/downloads. The
script also keeps this database updated by periodically downloading
latest version from the stopforumspam website or any other url that
you set on the configuration file.
.PP
To keep the iptable rules clean the script bans every ip that is found
to be used for spamming for a period of 10 minutes. After the 10 minutes
are due the ip is unbanned in order to minimize the amount of rules
actively used on iptables.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
display the script options
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-start\fR
initialize a daemon to monitor connections
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-stop\fR
stop the daemon
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-status\fR
display the daemon status and pid if running
.TP
\fB\-b\fR, \fB\-\-bans\fR
Lists banned ip addresses
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-update\fR
Updates the spammers database file

.SH SETTINGS
You can modify the script settings by editing /etc/stopspam/stopspam.conf

.TP
.B ENABLE_UPDATE = <true|false>
Enables automatic downloading and updating of spam database.
(Default: 1)

.TP
.B SPAM_DB_URL = '<url>'
The url of a valid spam formatted spam database like the ones provided by
stopforumspam.com which provides a list of ip with the amount of reports and
last activity date. Supports url's of .zip files containing .txt files
inside or url's to uncompressed .txt files. Check http://www.stopforumspam.com/downloads
for other ip databases that may match your requirements.
(Default: http://www.stopforumspam.com/downloads/listed_ip_365_ipv46_all.zip)

.TP
.B MIN_SPAM_REPORTS = <number>
The minimum amount of spam reports for an ip to be considered a valid spam ip.
(Default: 3)

.TP
.B TOXIC_DB_URL = '<url>'
Toxic url list, supports url's of .zip files containing .txt files inside or
url's to uncompressed .txt files. The file most contain: valid ip's, cidr or
ip ranges.
(Default: http://www.stopforumspam.com/downloads/toxic_ip_cidr.txt)

.TP
.B ENABLE_SPAMHAUS = <true|false>
Download and append the spamhaus drop lists to the SPAM_IP_LIST file.
(Default: true)

.TP
.B UPDATE_INTERVAL = <hours>
The amount of elapsed hours before trying to update the spam database.
(Default: 48)

.TP
.B SAVE_COUNTRY = <true|false>
Store the country of the ip on the log file which can slower the
script because it uses whois to retreive the information.
(Default: 1)

.TP
.B BAN_PERIOD = <seconds>
The amount of time in seconds to keep a spammer ip banned. (Default: 600)

.TP
.B DAEMON_FREQ = <number>
Frequency in seconds to monitor for spammer ip's. (Default: 3)

.SH FILES
.B /usr/share/doc/stopspam/LICENSE
.br
.B /usr/bin/stopspam
.br
.B /etc/stopspam/stopspam.conf
.br
.B /etc/stopspam/spam.ip.list
.br
.B /etc/stopspam/white.ip.list
.br
.B /etc/stopspam/white.host.list

.SH AUTHOR
Jefferson González <jgmdev@gmail.com>

.SH LICENSE
Mit License - http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
